# A-Level-hangman
A hangman game (with additional minigame) I developed as a project for my A-level studies

This project started as a small task aimed to improve string handling in python at a lower level, I decided to take it slightly further as a side project until eventually developing it into a game to be handed in as coursework.

Initially i created a simple, text-based hangman game using ASCII-art imported from a separate .py file and allowing custom word lists to be uploaded, by entering the file name as a string when prompted to do so, and used (file management - SQL) while also housing a default word list. the word lists would be simple text files with one word per line which would then be read by the program and interpreted as an array. A word would be chosen at random and the console would display the hangman illustration with a number of dashes equal to the length of the chosen word to represent blank/unguessed characters. additionally a list of previously guessed letters would be displayed and updated with each guess. the user would guess a letter by typing it and hitting enter, the program would check the inputted string (removing trailing and leading spaces and ensuring the letters casing was consistent with what the program was expecting) and check the target word for any iteration of the letter, changing the output accordingly.
in a later iteration of this project I added the option to create an account for the user storing a username and encrypted password (using a hashing algorithm) in a simple database accessed with SQL. users would not be allowed to have the same username. Then I took on the next challenge of adding a skill tracking system which tracked the users skill based on the successes of their games as well as the length of the word selected. This came with the addition in-game option of selecting a difficulty which changed the length of the words in the list, each length of words came with a separate list stored in the game files which is something i would improve on if i were to redo this project to make the program more efficient.

after this small project was finalised and robust, I decided to create a similar project focussing on front end improvements. Using the first project as a base, I started creating a GUI with the tkinter library as this was something we had been introduced to around the same time. During this project, I encounter a few issues with implementing the full functionality of the first project with the GUI i created, as such this project had lost some features such as the ability to create accounts and store progress. I decided this was fine as i wanted to focus on optimising the front-end. the project still allowed the user to upload custom files or use default words stored in the game files this time using an on-screen button to browse files and attach the desired word list to upload and use. the GUI interface displayed the same objects as the text based game using tkinter Labels, wit hthe addition of an on-screen keyboard built of 26 buttons each with their own function (another aspect i believe could be improved)

Using tkinter at the time was a challenge to me particularly when implementing it alongside other libaries. In spite of this i decided that my two projects, with different focus on the front or back end, was not satisfactory and decided to combine them into a third and final project which i would eventually hand in as an assessed project.

During this merge, having overcome many obstacles, I managed not only to integrate the functionalities of both previous projects but also to include additional functionalities in the form of 'game modes' to allow different styles of play. i separated the game into three distinct modes which were accessed from a simple menu. the first option was a 'learn' option aimed to help young minds with their spelling in class, it allowed custom word lists to be uploaded (presumably by a teacher) as this was my understanding of how spellings were taught. the project would then store the list as well as the number of times a word was successfully guessed in order to use a small amount of machine learning to bias the word selection and increase the frequency of words the user struggles with appearing. next was a 'practice' mode which was your essential hangman game with a default word list and a small counter which kept track of the users 'streak' this aimed to add a goal for users to improve engagement with the game. finally was a 'challenge' mode designed to create competition and improve engagement, working similarly to the 'practice' mode with the addition of a leaderboard of all accounts on the database with their personal score (calculated based on the length of each successfully guessed word).

An additional fourth game mode was included in the final project which was a simple coin-flip minigame, this was initially a separate project i had developed in a similar way (taking a simple in-class task and taking it way further than i needed to) to utilise object oriented programming. In all honesty this was included in this project simply to score a few more points on the assessment due to it demonstrating OOP.
